So our lodging was taken care of. Of course, we had
to provide our food. We didn't expect them to feed
us in the village. So we'd done this tour. Were you
in a bus? Yes, we would rent a bus. I don't know if
rent is a good word or not, because they'd furnish
the driver.
We'd get through play in one place and maybe we
could stay all night and drive all the next day to
the next one. But we tried to book it so that we
wouldn't have too much mileage to make in a short
period of time. And these were dances for the town
people, for anybody that wanted to come? Yes, I
would suppose so. Because generally, you know,
you wouldn't have too many Aggies in one town. West
Texas is well known for its Aggie information. And
I'm sure they invite people from the next town
club, you know, or whatever. Because they're
usually well attended. So you would have, you
didn't take a piano from here? No. So they would
provide the piano, and you'd have to get
accustomed to a new piano every night.
Do you remember any particular difficulties you
had? Well, I can with Buzzy, but not necessarily.
Well, give an example with Buzzy. Well, one place
in South Texas where we booked a band was The piano
was so bad and so out of tune, I just sat there all
night. All I would contribute would be a discord. I
was the worst piano I ever saw, although I was
singing some pretty bad ones. What was, in that
first year or so, what were the favorite songs that
the Aggieland Orchestra played? Well,
Chattanooga Choo Choo and There
were some instrumentals that he played that I
don't recall quite the names of, but some of the big
bands had some instrumentals to show off their
talent. He emulated some of those. Did you all have
a vocalist? Well, not Percy. There was a young lady
here in town. Alice Butler. Alice what? Butler.
She was Bob Butler's wife. They were a big
construction company. But she had a good velocity
and she used to sing with us occasionally. But she
didn't travel with you? No, she didn't. So mostly
it was instrumental.
And of course, that was the going thing, you know,
instrumental music. Some of the bands, as you
know, had very fine vocals. They were big bands.
Now, all of the members of the Aggieland Orchestra
were students. Yes. And did y'all ever have any
problem of being out on the road and not be able to
get back to classes? No, we didn't. I think we were
very careful about that. Because most of the
dances were held either on Friday or Saturday
night. So you had all day Sunday to get back if you
needed to be in class on Monday morning. All right,
let's go back to classes. How did you, as a young
28-year-old freshman, what was it like to start
college At that age? Well, I'll give you
something. I went to a Yale practice. I'm not over
there. I'm not a speaker, but that YMCA thing.
Everybody's down on those steps, you know, and
everything. And they, you know, at the end of the
thing, that freshman had to take off and run, and
you're familiar with that, don't you? And so the
band leader now was sitting up there, and he said,
now don't you run. So I didn't, man. But everybody
thought I was about a junior transfer. I wasn't my
age. So they didn't pick on you? No. What classes do
you remember that first year? What courses? Well,
mostly the baseball. I excelled in English. You
know, I had the advantage of all the history and
things and everything like that. English, I mean,
I had some, you know, what was it, I think it was
history. But mostly it was the basics. Who taught,
do you remember who taught your history class?
Well, I, yeah. Why did you say that guy's name?
Nance. Yeah, one of them. But I think I got him in one
of the higher grades. What about, was it Ralph
Steen? Yeah. Yeah. And I don't know who else. Let's
see. Let me think about some of those other
guys. I was good in English. I had an advantage
growing up. I was reading and that sort of thing. I
got good grades in those courses. What about math?
I had algebra. pain in the neck. If I had had
advanced algebra, I had jumped in high school and
it was a breeze for me. But trigonometry I had to
skip on. I think you had to take algebra at that
time. And then a literature, I don't know if it was
English literature or That was a summer draft. And
it managed to give me 150 pages to read by the next
day.
Did you go home that first year? Did you go home to
visit? Yes, I did. But you're hitchhiking home
most of the time, you know. You leave on Friday
afternoon. Maybe you should be on the road at
midnight. Describe your memories of
hitchhiking. Where did you go to catch the ride? We
used to line up over at A&M over in Bryan, I think, on
Texas Avenue, right about the business center
down there. Over on, well, then it was not called
Texas, it was called something else, I don't know
why. And you'd go and put your bag down in the place
and line up, and when your time came to catch a ride.
And everybody, you know, The public knew about the
agonist attack. So you'd get a ride with me.
Sometimes you'd get dropped off at the wrong
place. Did that ever happen to you? Oh, yeah. Where
did you get dropped off? So I got dropped off just
out of Waco in a little small town down there. And I
think I stood there an hour before I finally got a
ride. Generally speaking, you'd get your ride
pretty quick. And my roommate lived there. That
first year it lived in Longview or Gladewater, in
Gladewater. The woman asked me to go home with her.
We got out and we caught a ride. It was about 5 or 6
o'clock that afternoon. One of our rides, we had to
ride in a turtle, you know one of them. And the wind
was blowing strong and we were just about to blow
out of that thing. Finally, somewhere up in East
Texas, we saw the ride that took us all the way to
Gladewater. And we got there about midnight.
Did you ever have any bad hitchhiking experience?
No, not really. Pretty much, you know, people know
you about baggage. And I don't know why they made
special provisions. So at that time, we were
lucky. This is where we're going. alright so did
you go home thanksgiving or Christmas your first
year I'll be there you know you yeah it wasn't too
much and
who are some teachers that you remember from that
first year so that we're really special well
remember You mentioned one of them, Screaming Al.
Screaming Al Nelson in history? Yeah. I had him one
time. He taught me a lot. Did you know him? Yes, sir.
And then the English teacher, Powell. Powell?
Uh-huh. P-O-W-E-L-L. He was quite an older man.
His eyesight wasn't too good. But I turned in a
paper to him one time, I don't know what it was,
something written in class, which he gave me
astounding numbers of hundreds. But like I said, I
had the advantage, almost impressionable, you
know, of 12 years of reading and writing and
writing.
And did the other students sometimes turn to you
for advice since you were older than they were? No,
I never really had any of that. I know one time,
though, when I first came down here, and my
roommate's name was Guggles. And so when his
parents got his first, you know, grades, his
mother came down. He said, I'm going to bring him
over to Jesus. And you see that he does his
classwork. Of course, I had all I could do. And he
said, and be sure that he does what he's supposed to
do. And I can remember when I told her, you're going
to need to put this down. So if he doesn't do right,
I'll just stick the hell out of it. Did they ever try
to haze you, the sophomores or juniors? No, I never
had any of that. because of my age, you know, and I'm
just, I don't know what, they never, I was never
hazed. Did you eat at that, at the boarding house
where you lived? Yes, I did. In fact, not only ate
there, but behind that house they had a garden
plot. It was, I don't know how much it was, but it was
a pretty good sized plot back then. farming
experience, I planted some green beans back then.
Real green beans today. I never thought that the
crops would exist before. They just kept varying
and we ate green beans over here. Now how did you get
to the campus each day? How did you get back and
forth to the campus? Well, like I said, this one guy
had a truck. We used to ride out there. I don't know
whether he went back and forth at different times,
but I do recall having ridden in that truck from
time to time. And otherwise, we had people that
would pick you up and take you to school. And I don't
recall ever having missed a class because of being
tardy or anything. And did you spend the whole day
on the campus sometimes? If I haven't had more than
one class, then yes. now where did you go if you had
any spare time during the day where did you go on
campus to study or to relax? mostly probably to
relax and I might have hushed up on my piano where
would you do that? well they had a piano in that
church type thing oh in the old chapel? yeah they
had a good piano there and they also had a good piano
in the in the YMCA there. Did you meet Mr. Cashin?
Oh, yes. Please describe him. Well, he was head of
the YMCA there. Son Red was a kid then, about five or
so. We used to see a lot of Reds around the YMCA. And I
never had very much relationship with Mr. Cashin.
He was pretty busy with his stuff, I guess. But it
was okay for you to play on that piano? Oh, yes, sir.
Did you go to the library much? Yes, I did. Quite a
bit. Of course, it was much smaller than it is now.
But I can't remember any researching I did there or
anything like that. But I've understood from
freshmen in the Corps that the library was a place
where you could go and escape the sophomores.
Well, since I didn't classify, really, as a
freshman, I didn't have to do that. Where did you go
to get something to eat or a cold drink? Well, you
know, they had this. thing down in the basement at
the YMCA. I've forgotten the name of it. It's been
there for years and years and years. You just go
down there and you get Coca-Cola and things like
that. Would you eat lunch on campus? Sometimes I
would. Where? At Sabeza. I believe at that time you
paid as you went in. I'm thinking that Do
you remember what that first year or any of your
years cost? What the tuition and fees were? And
you made all of your, you supported yourself. Your
parents didn't send you any money. Right. But the
band was better paid than most of the other
students or, you know, other people. So I can't
remember whether I got $5 a day or that thing at $5 an
hour. It was probably more like $5 a day. And on
those trips, at Christmas time, you know, it kind
of built up a capital fund, you know, and it got me
over into it. So you mean you're... had a little bit
of leftover. Did y'all ever get stranded by?
Back? No, I don't remember ever being. I can
remember. Me and two other guys got stranded down
in Dallas. And we were supposed to be back on campus
in the morning for classes, you know. And we got
stranded. Stranded is. I'm telling you, we got
stranded down between here and, let's see, what's
that? Not in Avisota. Hempstead. Hempstead.
Between Hempstead and Avisota. We got really
stranded. We didn't get home until daylight. Oh,
boy. Now, when you went to class, since you weren't
in uniform, what did you wear? Standard pants.
Well, but was it a... Well, probably jeans and a
shirt, you know, and a jacket, and work shoes. But I
must have stood out like a sore thumb, you know, in
some of those classes. In class, what was the
normal kind of behavior? How did you all behave in
class? extended the class. There was no hot shots
and yak yak death. Those classes were, what you can
understand, I'm sure, that since it was a military
school, most of the students were military
students and they knew what to expect of them. Did
you all go every day? No, we didn't have classes
every day. No, but I mean, did you go to every time
the class met or did you cut class very often? No, we
never cut classes. As that first year ended, how
were your grades? Well, I just barely made it from
the six-week thing. I hadn't gotten a D in
trigonometry or algebra or something like that
that had sent me back home. That was your first
year? Yeah. I barely made it under the wire to stay
that second semester. I'll be right back.
evaluated six weeks I think that's what it was and
then if you didn't make it in six weeks you were
shipped out they didn't have no room for you if you
couldn't make you know the grades but I was lucky
and I mean I was fortunate to be able to stay that
second six weeks because I just barely got in under
the wire I couldn't even remember how to study I had
to learn how to study before I learned how to do
anything else Who did you turn to for advice if you
needed help? Well, sometimes I'd talk to the
senior guys. But I'd impose on one of my roommates
to send me my business. And he's so busy trying to
find out what that meant, he didn't have time to
tell me. By the time I got down to the nitty-gritty,
I had to change forces in order to make it. I talked
to one of the counselors. I don't know who he was,
who advised me. He said, if you can't make it in
engineering, make it in something else. So I got
out of the engineering school and went into the
other ladder school. Which one? Well, whatever,
the English and all that stuff. Oh, arts and
science. Yes. I got a BA in that. That's what I found
at the end of that year. All right. At the end of your
first year, Did you go back home to McKinney that
summer? Yes, I went to work. I got a job with Lone
Star Gas Company, and we put pipelines in all over
East Texas. Do you remember what the pay was? No, I
sure don't. It wasn't very much, though. Who
helped you get that job? These two guys in the
project house there, they were from Dallas and
they knew this guy and they would, I think before
they had worked for him. And I got a job inspecting
wells that we put in pipelines and they'd weld them
together. And they gave me the job of just go by and
check those wells to see if there were any holes in
them. And with the sun beating down on the back of my
head, at 110 degrees, and bending over that hot
well to look at that thing, boy, first day I was sick
as a dog, man. I had eaten something, I don't know
what. It was hard to digest. Boy, they put me in the
shade for the rest of the afternoon. But you know,
after that, I didn't have any trouble with eating.
So you did that all summer. Yeah. Then came back,
and this would be, your second year would be the
fall of 1941. Yes. And so you're now getting ready
to major in arts and sciences. Where did you live
that second year? Well, I first went back and lived
in the project house. But this man that had the
truck, I guess, didn't have it anymore, didn't
bring it down. So I had to hitchhike every day. And I
had an opportunity to go into the project houses.
And as much as I hated to leave the old ladies, I had
to get someplace where I could make it. So I moved
into Project House 7, which was from Collin County
or from one of those counties up there. And I moved
in with three other guys from Collin County. About
how many lived in that Project House total? Well,
there was four of us in that one room, and there was
about, I guess, about 16. Were they all from Collin
County? No, I don't think so. It had kind of gotten
diluted, you know, but most of them were from
Collin County. Four of you in one room. Describe
what was in that room. What kind of furniture?
Well, it was stacked beds. They had two stacked
beds, and they had, I don't remember whether they
had two tables or what, but they had, I think,
tables were divided you know you had lights on both
and probably two two guys studied on each side of
the table so and of course not everybody is
studying at the same time so all right where was the
shower it was upstairs and it was a communal shower
and i guess probably maybe six or eight Do you
remember what the cost was to live in the project
house? Yeah. $13 for $13 a month a month. Yeah. And
mother, she did the cooking. And she had somebody
helping her out. Anyway, feed 16 men, you know,
three meals a day. Yeah. And did you have any
duties? Did you have to help clean up or wash? Sure.
I had to make sure that my room was clean. And I used
to, Dr. Russell was the head of that thing. Dr. Dan.
Yeah. And he started that business. And
I used to go with him over to North Gooch, where he
bought groceries from this grocery store. He had
them hauled groceries there. And then they had a
grocery store. a place there in the area where it's
also stocked up on the food. But could you imagine
room and board at $13? I think it finally went up,
but $13 a month. Did he go to North Zulch to buy
groceries for the project houses? And you helped
him haul that. Yes. Did he get it from the railroad
car? Or was there a grocery grocery place over
there? I don't know how they how they managed to use
that place. But I can recall we went over there and
we load up a big truck. Describe Dr. Russell's
personality. What kind of a man was he? He was a
wonderful man. He's very thoughtful. And, and he
had to be a fine man to do all that and start that
thing. Poor guys like me and 900 others could go to a
place of higher learning without spending their
life savings so to speak. Describe him
physically. What size was he? He was a big man. What
did he look like? As I recall, he was brunette, and
at that time, I think he was probably in his sixties
or so. He had a heavy set and everything, and dark
hair. He had me in the wagon, you know, in our old
bundles and things. Well, we got to that
interurban station, not the station. We
were
talking about your freshman year and you worked
for the gas company that fall and then came back and
lived in the project house, did you and the others
in the project house, did you all do any house
cleaning? We had to clean our own windows. And I
believe that we were assigned kitchen duties. You
know, we had a week in which we had to go in the
kitchen and wash dishes or whatever we had to do in
the kitchen. Did you ever bring down from your
family, did you ever bring part of the groceries?
Yes. What did you bring? Mainly garden stuff,
which was hard to get down there. My mother was a
good gardener. And all the other guys did the same
thing. Whatever they had, eggs, you know, they
might be helpful to add up to food. What, in that
project house, what was not allowed? What were you
all not to do in that house? You couldn't bring your
drugs. Okay. And, I don't know, everybody had to
respect everybody else's, you know, their space
and their people. Did
anybody drink
in the house? Oh, no. Oh, no. Not any of that is going
on. What about smoking? Did you young men smoke in
those? In fact, I had been off cigarettes for 18
months. I picked up a hat. What was your favorite
brand? Lucky Strike. They were the mildest ones.
And I guess the easiest ones to quit. I finally quit
when I was 39 years old. Did y'all smoke in the
house, in the project house? I can't remember
whether or not. Probably did. Did anybody chew
tobacco in there? Not that I know of. No snuff? No.
And I don't remember too many guys. I'll say that.
You know, it's addictive. It's addictive. Like
me, when I got back down there and started smoking,
I picked up the habits. Where did you do your
washing? They had a washout. You'd go in there and
wash. The other thing, I guess, were the washing
machines over there? I think that's all there was
to do in there. Did it cost anything? Yeah, I
believe you had to pay.
And so you lived there all of your sophomore year?
How many years did you live in the project house?
Well, I stayed there until I went into service in
1942. So that was two years ago. camaraderie.
With four of you in a room, how did you all work it out
that the lights would go off? How did you keep
somebody from studying into the wee hours of the
night? What were the rules about turning the
lights on and off? I don't recall. I don't know. It
never seemed to be easy. and nobody ever had
anything stolen and
you're still you were in the orchestra during all
this time and still traveling
What,
were
they
wanting German music or Czech music? Now, some of
the nationally famous big bands came to A&M. Do you
remember some of those? Well, Stan Kenton one
time, his music was far off the beat, you know, a lot
of music. But we had Stan Kenton. We had,
I don't know, I didn't know, I didn't know. tommy